# Write-up Template

### Analyze, choose, and justify the appropriate resource option for deploying the app.

*For **both** a VM or App Service solution for the CMS app:*
*Analyze costs, scalability, availability, and workflow*
- *Virtual Machines (VM) is a type of Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS).  It is cheaper than On-Premeses because you are managing the applications, data, runtime, middleware, and O/S while others manage the virtualization, servers,  storage, and networking. And thus there is lower upfront cost compared to purchasing and maintaining hardware like you would with an On-Premises solution.  Azure VMs allows you full access and control of the VM.  It supports both Linux and Windows.  There are various types of Azure VMs such as computer or memory-optimized.  VMs range in amount of size or the amount of hardware allocated to the VM such as CPU, RAM, and storage.  For example, you can spin up a VM with as little as 1 virtual CPU and as high as several hundreds of virtual CPUs.  Azure VMs support the installation of custom images, and is a great choice for migrating from on-premises server to the cloud.  Multiple VMs can be grouped to provide high availability, scalability, and redundancy.  However, some limitations to VMs is that they are more expensive than PaaS and can be labor-intensive and more time-consuming for the developer than other compute options.*
- *Web Applications which is a type of Platform as a Service (PaaS).  With a PaaS solution, there is no expense and complexity for managing software licenses or development tools.  With PaaS, you are only responsible for managing the applications and data; the Cloud service provider manages everything else.  Web Apps support multiple programming languages such as .NET, .NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, or Python.  It provides high availability, auto-scaling, and support of both Linux and Windows environments. App Service also supports a continuous deployment model using GitHub, Azure DevOps, or any Git repo.  It provides vertial scaling, which means it increases or decreases resources allocated to our App Service, such as the amount of vCPUs or RAM, by changing the App Service pricing tier.  It also provides horizontal scaling, which means it increases or decreases the number of Virtual Machine instances our App Service is running.  App Service lets you set the amount of hardware allocated to host your application, and the cost varies based on the plan you choose.  There are three different tiers - Dev/Test, Production, and Isolated.  Some limitations of using a Web App Service is that you have limited access to the host server, so you are unable to control the underlying OS or install software on the server.  Another limitation is you are always paying for the service plan, even if your services or application isn't running.  Additionally, there are hardware limitations, such as a maximum of 14GB of memory and 4 vCPU cores per instance.  Finally, while they support multiple languages, they are limited to just using those languages.*

*Choose the appropriate solution (VM or App Service) for deploying the app*
- *I chose to build a Web Application Service for deploying my app.* 

*Justify your choice* 
- *I chose to use a Web Application for deploying my app because PaaS is a more cost-effective solution.  And although it has some limitations, the limitations did not impact my App since the Web App Service offers enough memory for my app, and Python is the language I preferred to use when developing the app.  The Virtual Machine is too expensive and labor-intensive for the type of app I wanted to build.*
### Assess app changes that would change your decision.

*Detail how the app and any other needs would have to change for you to change your decision in the last section.* 
- *My decision would change to using the VM should I need to scale more than what the Web App Service could provide.  For example, if I need more memory than 14GB, or if I needed to use a different programming language that what the Web App Service offers, I would choose to use the Virtual Machine option to build my application.*
